.. _release-0.4.0:

================================
Release 0.4.0 - Codename Crowbar
================================

In this release we have a couple of major core improvements and changes, as 
well as new features and structured messages.

Core improvements and additions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Beginning with this release you are now able to start multiple :ref:`Listeners 
<listener>` and :ref:`Publishers <publisher>`, that means, the syslog messages 
from the devices can be received from multiple sources concomitantly, and, 
similarly, published over multiple channels at the same time. Each can have 
a separate group of settings, including :ref:`disable_security 
<publisher-opts-disable-security>` to publish the messages without being 
encrypted and signed for that specific Publisher only.

Additionally, we have introduced the :ref:`serializer` subsystem that allows to 
serialize the structured napalm-logs messages in different formats chosen by 
the user. The following serializers are available:

- :ref:`serializer-msgpack` (which was the only serializer available prior to 
  this release).
- :ref:`serializer-json`
- :ref:`serializer-yaml`
- :ref:`serializer-str`
- :ref:`serializer-pprint`

The serializer can be selected globally using the :ref:`serializer 
<configuration-options-serializer>` configuration option, or per Publisher, 
using the :ref:`Publisher serializer <publisher-opts-serializer>` option.

At the Publisher level, there are several new options:

- :ref:`disable_security <publisher-opts-disable-security>` to disable the 
  encryption of the messages, per Publisher.
- :ref:`serializer <publisher-opts-serializer>` to select the Serializer.
- :ref:`error_whitelist <publisher-opts-error-whitelist>` to allow only some 
  messages to be published, based on their
  :ref:`error tag <message-error-tags>`.
- :ref:`error_blacklist <publisher-opts-error-blacklist>` to prevent publishing 
  some messages, based on their :ref:`error tag <message-error-tags>`.
- :ref:`publisher-opts-only-raw` to publish only :ref:`RAW`-type messages.
- :ref:`publisher-opts-only-unknown` to publish only :ref:`UNKNOWN`-type messages.

Deprecations
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Logger Interface Deprecation
----------------------------

As announced in the :ref:`release-0.3.0` notes, the :ref:`logger` interface has 
been deprecated due to the possibility to have multiple Publishers introduced 
in this release. As the :ref:`logger` subsystem used to send only the partially 
parsed syslog messages, you can achieve the same now using the 
:ref:`publisher-opts-only-raw` option. For example, given the following 
configuration for ``napalm-logs < 0.4.0``:

.. code-block:: yaml

  logger:
    kafka:
      send_raw: true

Beginning with this release, the equivalent configuration is:

.. code-block:: yaml

  publisher:
    - kafka:
        only_raw: true

Other Deprecations
------------------

The :ref:`transport <configuration-options-transport>` configuration option is no
longer supported. Make sure to use the
:ref:`publisher <configuration-options-publisher>` option instead.


New Structured Messages
-----------------------

- :ref:`BGP_SESSION_NOT_CONFIGURED`

The following messages were already defined, now extending the list of 
supported platforms:

- :ref:`ISIS_NEIGHBOR_DOWN` defined for ``junos``.
- :ref:`ISIS_NEIGHBOR_UP` defined for ``junos``.
