.. _release-0.6.0:

================================
Release 0.6.0 - Codename Fretsaw
================================

Prometheus Metrics
------------------

John Anderson (@lampwins) added support for Prometheus metrics. While this
feature is optional, ``napalm-logs`` has an additional requirements starting 
with this release: the `prometheus_client 
<https://pypi.org/project/prometheus_client/>`_ Python library for Prometheus 
instrumentation, which is used to expose the metrics via an HTTP server.
The implementation is fully compliant with Prometheus scraping, so you need 
only point your Prometheus server to the exposed metrics to scrape them.

See :ref:`metrics` for further details and configuration options, as well as 
the new options: :ref:`configuration-options-enable-metrics`,
:ref:`configuration-options-metrics-address`, 
:ref:`configuration-options-metrics-port`, and 
:ref:`configuration-options-metrics-dir`.

Brocade NetIron Support
-----------------------

Initial support for Brocade NetIron has been added thanks to Johan van den 
Dorpe (@johanek), providing notifications for 
:ref:`BGP_NEIGHBOR_STATE_CHANGED`, when the BGP peer is ``UP``, ``DOWN``,
``IDLE``, or ``ESTABLISHED`` (as defined in the ``openconfig-bgp`` YANG model).
The platform is available as ``netiron``.

Huawei VRP Support
------------------

Starting with this release, also Huawei VRP is supported under the ``huawei`` 
name, firing notifications for :ref:`INTERFACE_UP` and :ref:`INTERFACE_DOWN`. 
This has been added thanks to Antoine Meillet (@inetAnt).
The platform is available as ``huawei``.

As the list of supported platforms keeps growing, do consider using the 
:ref:`configuration-options-device-blacklist` and 
:ref:`configuration-options-device-whitelist` for fine tuning.

More configuration options
--------------------------

Antoine Meillet (@inetAnt) also added more options for the :ref:`listener-tcp` 
and :ref:`listener-udp`, to enable or disable the ``SO_REUSEPORT`` on 
listener's socket - see :ref:`listener-tcp-reuse-port` and 
:ref:`listener-udp-reuse-port`, respectively.

Improvements
------------

Simon Bitterli (@bittsi) added timezone support for Cisco IOS.

Bug fixes
---------

Due to a known issue, multiple platforms having the same 
:ref:`syslog-header`, ``napalm-logs`` was unable to match them. Luke Overend 
fixed this, which would also permit us in the future to have both ``junos``
and UNIX message parsing concomitantly.

John Anderson (@lampwins) also fixed a core issue with the time extraction when 
the syslog message doesn't provide it.

Known issues
------------

When a message is not fully parsed and matched, but there are multiple 
platforms identified as it could belong to, when the
:ref:`publisher-opts-send-raw` Publisher option is enabled, the message will be
published twice. This is currently being tracked under 
https://github.com/napalm-automation/napalm-logs/issues/246.


New Structured Messages
-----------------------

- :ref:`USER_EXIT_CONFIG_MODE` added by Simon Bitterli (@bittsi) providing the 
  counterpart of the existing :ref:`USER_ENTER_CONFIG_MODE`. This message is 
  particularly important on Cisco IOS platforms (but not limited to), after an 
  user applied a configuration change into the running config, or bootstrapped 
  via TFTP. This message is currently available for ``ios`` only.

The following messages were already defined, now extending the list of 
supported platforms:

- :ref:`INTERFACE_UP` added for ``huawei``.
- :ref:`INTERFACE_DOWN` added for ``huawei``.
- :ref:`BGP_NEIGHBOR_STATE_CHANGED` added for ``netiron``.
