.. _release-0.7.0:

=============================
Release 0.7.0 - Codename Froe
=============================

A new pluggable interface: buffer
---------------------------------

By design, syslog messages can be fired spuriously, and the same information 
may be sent multiple times within a short period of time.

The new :ref:`buffer` can cache the messages for a number of seconds and 
prevent firing the same messages redundantly.

The Buffer interface is pluggable subsystem and can be enabled from the 
configuration file, under the buffer block, for example:

.. code-block:: yaml

  buffer:
    redis:
      host: 127.0.0.1
      db: 4

For further details and configuration options, please check :ref:`buffer`.

New features
------------

Added :ref:`publisher-opts-strip-message-details` Publisher configuration
option to remove the ``message_details`` key from the object to be published.
``message_details`` contains the raw chunks of data resulted from the
napalm-logs parsing, before mapping to the associated YANG model.


New Structured Messages
-----------------------

- :ref:`AGENT_INITIALIZED` when a system process is (re-)initialized.
- :ref:`USER_WRITE_CONFIG` added by George Pickering (@bigpick) which is a
  notification sent when the user saves the startup config (though not
  necessarily updating the running config).

The following messages were already defined, now extending the list of 
supported platforms:

- :ref:`OSPF_NEIGHBOR_UP` and :ref: `OSPF_NEIGHBOR_DOWN` added for 
  :ref:`device-configuration-netiron` thanks to Johan van den Dorpe (@johanek).
- :ref:`USER_ENTER_CONFIG_MODE` and :ref:`USER_EXIT_CONFIG_MODE` added for
  :ref:`device-configuration-eos` thanks to George Pickering (@bigpick).
