.. _release-0.8.0:

==============================
Release 0.8.0 - Codename Gripe
==============================

Azure SONiC support
-------------------

Initial support for Azure SONiC has been added thanks to Anthony Iheoma
(@emfusion)'s contribution, providing notifications for :ref:`INTERFACE_UP`, 
:ref:`INTERFACE_DOWN`, and :ref:`BGP_NEIGHBOR_STATE_CHANGED`.

Opengear support
----------------

@gtcat provided support for Opengear console servers, together with a new set 
of messages: :ref:`USER_LOGIN`, :ref:`USER_LOGOUT`, :ref:`AUTORESPONSE`,
:ref:`RXDATA`, and :ref:`SIGNAL`. Thanks @gtcat!

Junos FPC logs
--------------

Thanks to Antoine Meillet (inetAnt)'s `pull 
request <https://github.com/napalm-automation/napalm-logs/pull/285>`__, 
napalm-logs is now capable to process Junos FPC logs as well.

Docker image changes
--------------------

Starting with this release, the Docker images will be hosted under the 
``napalmautomation`` organisation on Docker Hub. Please make sure to update your 
Docker references to
`napalmautomation/napalm-logs <https://hub.docker.com/r/napalmautomation/napalm-logs>`__
to pull the latest versions. Additionally, we publish a Docker image for the
``develop`` branch so you don't necessarily have to wait for a new release to
gather the fixes and features from the most recent PRs being merged.

New Structured Messages
-----------------------

:ref:`STP_BLOCK_BPDUGUARD` when the switch receives a BPDU on a port with BPDU 
guard enabled.

:ref:`BFD_STATE_CHANGE` when the BFD status is changed.

:ref:`NH_INSTALL_FAILED` and :ref:`NH_HOLD_PACKET` for Junos.

The following messages were already defined, now extending the list of 
supported platforms:

- :ref:`INTERFACE_UP` and :ref:`INTERFACE_DOWN` added for 
  :ref:`device-configuration-netiron` thanks to Johan van den Dorpe (@johanek).
- :ref:`BGP_NEIGHBOR_STATE_CHANGED`, :ref:`ISIS_NEIGHBOR_UP`, and 
  :ref:`ISIS_NEIGHBOR_DOWN` added for :ref:`device-configuration-eos` thanks to
  Johan van den Dorpe (@johanek).
- :ref:`INTERFACE_UP` and :ref:`INTERFACE_DOWN` added for
  :ref:`device-configuration-nxos` thanks to Keeran Marquis (@kmarquis).

Final notes
-----------

As there are more available platforms, all enabled by default, it's probably 
a good idea to make use of the :ref:`configuration-options-device-blacklist` 
and :ref:`configuration-options-device-whitelist` options, and maybe even 
increase the value for :ref:`configuration-options-device-worker-processes`.
